## [C​ourse 5 – Analyze Data to Answer Questions](https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-preparation?specialization=google-data-analytics)

This is the fifth course in the Google Data Analytics Certificate. These courses will equip you with the skills needed to apply to introductory-level data analyst jobs. In this course, you’ll explore the “analyze” phase of the data analysis process. You’ll take what you’ve learned to this point and apply it to your analysis to make sense of the data you’ve collected. You’ll learn how to organize and format your data using spreadsheets and SQL to help you look at and think about your data in different ways. You’ll also find out how to perform complex calculations on your data to complete business objectives. You’ll learn how to use formulas, functions, and SQL queries as you conduct your analysis. Current Google data analysts will continue to instruct and provide you with hands-on ways to accomplish common data analyst tasks with the best tools and resources.

&nbsp;

### C​ourse content

* **O​rganizing data to begin analysis**. Organizing data makes the data easier to use in an analysis. In this part of the course, you will learn the importance of organizing your data with sorting and filtering. You will explore organizing data in both spreadsheets and with SQL queries and temporary tables.
* **F​ormatting and adjusting your data**. As you move closer to analyzing your data, you will want to have the data formatted and ready to go. In this part of the course, you will learn all about converting and formatting data, including how to use SQL queries to combine data. You will also discover the value of feedback and support from your colleagues and how it can lead to new insights that you can apply to your work.
* **A​ggregating data for analysis**. During an analysis, you might need to combine data to gain insights and complete business objectives. In this part of the course, you will explore the functions, procedures, and syntax to combine, or aggregate data. You will learn how to combine data within multiple cells in spreadsheets, and within multiple database tables using SQL queries. 
* **Performing d​ata calculations**. Calculations are one of the more common tasks that data analysts perform during an analysis. In this part of the course, you will explore formulas, functions, and pivot tables in spreadsheets and SQL queries. All of these are used in data calculations. You will also learn about the benefits of using SQL to manage temporary database tables. 
* **Completing the C​ourse Challenge**. At the end of this course, you will be able to put everything you have learned into perspective with the Course Challenge. The Course Challenge will ask you questions about the main concepts and then give you an opportunity to apply what you have learned in three scenarios.