## [C​ourse 2 – Ask Questions to Make Data-Driven Decisions](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ask-questions-make-decisions?specialization=google-data-analytics)

This is the second course in the Google Data Analytics Certificate. These courses will equip you with the skills needed to apply to introductory-level data analyst jobs. You’ll build on your understanding of the topics that were introduced in the first Google Data Analytics Certificate course. The material will help you learn how to ask effective questions to make data-driven decisions, while connecting with stakeholders’ needs. Current Google data analysts will continue to instruct and provide you with hands-on ways to accomplish common data analyst tasks with the best tools and resources.

&nbsp;
### Course content

1. **Asking effective questions**: To do the job of a data analyst, you need to ask questions and problem-solve. In this part of the course, you’ll check out some common analysis problems and how analysts solve them. You’ll also learn about effective questioning techniques that can help guide your analysis.
2. **Making data-driven decisions**: In analytics, data drives decision making. In this part of the course, you’ll explore data of all kinds and its impact on decision making. You’ll also learn how to share your data through reports and dashboards.
3. **Mastering spreadsheet basics**: Spreadsheets are an important data analytics tool. In this part of the course, you’ll learn both why and how data analysts use spreadsheets in their work. You’ll also explore how structured thinking can help analysts better understand problems and come up with solutions. 
4. **Always remembering the stakeholder**: Successful data analysts learn to balance needs and expectations. In this part of the course, you’ll learn strategies for managing the expectations of stakeholders while establishing clear communication with your team to achieve your objectives.  
5. **Completing the Course Challenge**: At the end of this course, you will be able to put everything you have learned into practice with the Course Challenge. The Course Challenge will ask you questions about key principles you have been learning about and then give you an opportunity to apply those principles in three scenarios. 