## [C​ourse 6 – Share Data Through the Art of Visualization](https://www.coursera.org/learn/visualize-data?specialization=google-data-analytics)

This is the sixth course in the Google Data Analytics Certificate. These courses will equip you with the skills needed to apply to introductory-level data analyst jobs. You’ll learn how to visualize and present your data findings as you complete the data analysis process. This course will show you how data visualizations, such as visual dashboards, can help bring your data to life. You’ll also explore Tableau, a data visualization platform that will help you create effective visualizations for your presentations. Current Google data analysts will continue to instruct and provide you with hands-on ways to accomplish common data analyst tasks with the best tools and resources.

&nbsp;

## Course content

* **Data visualization**: Data visualization is in many ways the culmination of the data analysis process. In this part of the course, you will be introduced to the concepts involved in data visualization. You will learn about accessibility, design thinking, and other factors that play a role in visualizing the data in your analysis.
* **Data visualizations with Tableau**: Tableau is a tool that can help analysts create effective data visualizations. In this part of the course, you will learn all about Tableau and its uses. You will also explore the importance of creativity and clarity while visualizing your findings appropriately.
* **Stories about your data**: Connecting your objective with your data through insights is essential to good data storytelling. In this part of the course, you will learn about data-driven stories and their attributes. You will also gain an understanding of how to use Tableau to create dashboards and dashboard filters. 
* **Developing presentations and slideshows**: In this part of the course, you will discover how to give an effective presentation about your data analysis. You will consider all aspects of your analysis when creating a presentation and learn how to use multiple data sources in the data visualizations you will share. In addition, you will learn how to anticipate potential limitations and questions that might arise and how to provide useful answers to stakeholders.
* **Course Challenge**: At the end of this course, you will be able to put everything you have learned into practice with the Course Challenge. The Course Challenge will ask you questions about key principles you have been learning about and then give you an opportunity to apply those principles in two scenarios. 