## [C​ourse 4 – Process Data from Dirty to Clean](https://www.coursera.org/learn/process-data?specialization=google-data-analytic)

This is the fourth course in the Google Data Analytics Certificate. These courses will equip you with the skills needed to apply to introductory-level data analyst jobs. In this course, you’ll continue to build your understanding of data analytics and the concepts and tools that data analysts use in their work. You’ll learn how to check and clean your data using spreadsheets and SQL as well as how to verify and report your data cleaning results. Current Google data analysts will continue to instruct and provide you with hands-on ways to accomplish common data analyst tasks with the best tools and resources.

&nbsp;

### Course Contents

1. **E​nsuring data integrity**. Data integrity is necessary to ensure a successful analysis. In this part of the course, you will explore methods and steps that analysts take to check data for integrity. This includes knowing what to do when you have an insufficient amount of data. You will also learn about sample size, avoiding sample bias, and using random samples. All of these measures also help to ensure a successful data analysis.
2. **U​nderstanding clean data**. Every data analyst wants clean data to work with when performing an analysis. In this part of the course, you will learn the difference between clean and dirty data. You will practice data cleaning techniques in spreadsheets and other tools.
3. **C​leaning data using SQL**. Knowing a variety of ways to clean data can make an analyst’s job much easier. In this part of the course, you will use SQL to clean data from databases. You will explore how SQL queries and functions can be used to clean and transform your data before an analysis.
4. **V​erifying and reporting cleaning results**. Cleaning data is an important step in the data analysis process. In this part of the course, you will verify that data is clean and report data cleaning results. With verified clean data, you will be ready for the next step in the data analysis process.
5. **(​Optional) Adding data to your resume**. Creating an effective resume will help you in your data analytics career. In this part of the course, you will learn all about the job application process. Your focus will be on building a resume that highlights your strengths and relevant experience. 
6. **C​ompleting the Course Challenge**. At the end of this course, you will be able to apply what you have learned in the Course Challenge. The Course Challenge will ask you questions about the key concepts and then will give you an opportunity to put them into practice as you go through prepared scenarios.